Excellent.
Once we have covered how we can name our grid lines.
Next why don't we talk about the grid template areas.
And I guess the easiest way how I could explain grid template areas is the fact that we're still going
to set up our columns and the rows.
But what we're gonna do is for each and every item for each and every cell we are going to sign some
kind of name value.
And then we're going to set up our areas and then we're just going to place our particular cell within
that particular area.
Now it sounds a little bit more complicated than it really is.
And in order to help us understand it better.
In fact we're going to create this type of layout where we're going to have cell number one and that's
going to be spending like this then cell number two and then cell number three four and five and six.
And of course as we're going to be working then I'm gonna cover everything in more detail.
Now I also want to let you know right away that remember we had display area names and this is exactly
what we're going to cover.
So if I'm going to show my grid you're going to notice that there is going to be some areas and those
areas are going to have names.
So in all this this would be let's say area 8.
And by the way you can name this.
How are you like this would be Area B and then we have C and D and E and F.
Now let's start very very simply by just deleting everything that we had before.
Like so as long as we don't care about the cell number one currently and nine why don't we delete the
cell number seven and add one more class so cell number six.
But then we need to start thinking.
So how many rows and columns we're gonna have that's always gonna be your first question.
And by the way we are cheating already a little bit because we can clearly see of how many rows and
items we're gonna have if we make this a little bit harder.
And now technically we would need to figure it out so I can tell already.
Okay.
So if as I'm looking at my columns now it is a little bit harder for me to see right now because everything
is using the fractions but I could kind of already guessed that.
Let's say this is going to be my column and the way I can tell that is known as this would be my grade
column line like so here and then I would have my second column line here correct.
So as I'm looking at it how many columns would I have.
1 2 and 3 correct.
Then we can turn it on and clearly we can see I will be my column number one column number two column
number three.
And I can see that we are technically using fractions correct because all of them are equally sized.
Now doesn't really matter the size right now of the columns.
This is really not the point of the video.
The point of the video is not for you to guess how wide the columns would be but I'm just trying to
kind of give you the general idea.
So we have three columns.
Okay then let's head over back to our grid and let's say a grid template columns and I'm gonna go with
one fraction one fraction and one fraction.
That's my initial layout.
Now the moment I set this up I'm going to have something like this.
That's a good start.
And you know what I think I can just get her the margins as well.
Let's do it this way.
Let's get her on the margins.
Okay.
Now next one up.
We need to decide well how many rows we have.
And that is also very important.
So let's think about it.
You can see that this would be one row.
So probably here I would have two of them correct or have row number one.
Rule number two.
Rule number three four and five.
So it is three rows and I can come up with whatever values I would like.
So I'm going to go grid template rows and let's go with hundred pixels on our pixels pixels on red pixels
pixels and you guessed it hundred pixels.
And once we set up our columns as well as the rows you know what I would like to remove this mean height.
Like so.
And when we do that we can see that.
Well what we have right now is rule number three.
Rule number four and rule number five.
Now the way we work with great template areas is following.
So we write a property by the name of grid template areas.
Then we could technically write this in this line but it is going to be easier if you're going to start
a new line.
So let me start a new line and then essentially what you're doing is you are setting up your rows.
So within the columns you're going to have your row.
So this is going to be your number one.
And what I'm going to do since we have five rows I'm just going to copy and paste that and then instead
of using the grid lines in fact we are setting up the area.
So what I'm going to say right now and again we can name this whole like but I'm just going to go with
a letters because it's just gonna be the fastest one.
But of course you can name to something like this area number one or something like that but I'm just
going to go with a a and then B.
So essentially what I'm saying you know what there is going to be Aryeh and Aryeh and then there's going
to be Area B.
Then I'm gonna continue next line and I'm gonna say that there's still going to be this area.
Ay ay ay ay and b analogy think about it.
So what happens here.
Now I have this area where it starts with a column no one goes to Column number two but then it also
continues here within the second row.
Correct.
That's how this area comes about.
And then for area number B well or not no b the area with a value of B Well it is going to be here.
That's the reason why I set this up.
Notice I have b b b.
Now I haven't set this up still in Rule number three.
And the reason why I only have two rows.
But hopefully you're getting the idea where essentially we're just setting up the areas and then eventually
we're just going to use these values for ourselves and assign that particular cell to that particular
area right now in this case what I would like to do.
Well I would like to place a c c so there's gonna be some area C and then I'm going to continue with
this B.
Now if I really wanted to I could go B all the way right as long as I keep on adding within that column
within that particular row and I would also like to mention that when we are signing had the values
for the areas it is important like I said we keep the rows.
So the way how we have rows.
So if you have five rows This is exactly what we should have we should have five of these quotation
marks.
And then wherever we place as that area within that particular row follow the syntax of how many columns
the reason is if I have three columns.
That's the reason why I'm setting up a b if I would have only two columns then I would need to say well
either a B or A or something like that.
So keep in mind you're keeping track of how many rows you have as well as how many columns you have
you're not just setting this willy nilly mallards do C C so area for the first column second column
in the row three is going to be S.C. and then I'm gonna continue with the B.
So my B is going to be in the first column the third.
I'm sorry.
First row third column second row third column and third row third column then what else we have what
we have D and D.
So this is gonna be spanning all across and just so you don't think I'm cheating can actually delete
that or remove the grid and then let's do DDD and then let's write e f f as far as my columns are concerned
and then once we have set up the areas it's really the easiest thing where I could just set up cell
number one and I can say you know what cell number one you are going to be grid area and that's the
property and the value of a lot set.
What happens this cell number one is right now placed within this area.
Ay ay.
And like I said we can set up however we would like these areas.
And this is just the way I chose to set it up and we also can of course place a different cell within
there.
It's not like I'm limited in cell number one and do something like this.
We can have a cell number six sitting within this area because the only thing I'm doing just assigning
the area for my particular cell.
Now you don't believe me.
Now let's do B all the way down here.
Something like that.
Now I'm going to change it to cell number one.
We had no particular reason just because I like to a man why don't we change the cell number two and
give it a B like so now what do you see here.
I see that I have cell then I have area of BBB and I just assign it to a cell number to use it now I
could go back to see Nick so and I'm gonna have that layer now stuff is going to break right now because
of course we haven't finished everything as well as you notice how this B is just randomly sitting within
a fourth row so we also need to be careful where when we are doing something well it needs to make sense.
All right so we have BBB and we have C so let's assign it so cell number three is going to be great
area of let's say C so and let's copy and paste it we're just gonna change these values where this is
going to be for five as well as it probably should have copy and paste one more time six analysts just
assign these areas now what's a.
This would be C then we have a D and E. enough.
And that's it.
So the only thing we're doing is we're just setting up within our normal whatever cells we would want.
And then of course what we're doing is we're just assigning this to the area.
Keep in mind we could have done this how with naming are grid lines.
Or we could have just done it by in fact using the grid line numbers.
This wasn't limited to just grid template areas.
I just wanted to show you how grid template areas work.
That's the reason why I came up with this particular example.
But again please keep in mind we do need to know how many columns we're gonna have.
I mean in rows we're gonna have.
And then we set up those areas and then we decide well how our layout is going to work.
And then we're just gonna be placing whatever items we have within the Asian email within those particular
areas.